### Overview

To get you started easily, we have written three query functions that you can use to filter your dataframe based on specified parameters. These functions are:

1. Querystring(*dataframe, col, value*)
   
   This function can be used when you want to filter your dataframe using the value of a text-based column, such as 'activity_name' and 'sport_type'. It takes the following parameters;
   
   a. *dataframe* : name of the dataframe to filter (e.g. activities_list)
   b. *col* : name of column where the filter value can be found (e.g. 'sport_type')
   c. *value* : the value to filter with (e.g. 'Ride')
   
   Example : Querystring(activities_list, 'sport_type', 'Ride') will filter said dataframe to contain only activities where the 'sport_type' is 'Ride'.
   
2. Querynumeric(*dataframe, col, min, max*)
   
   This function can be used when you want to filter your dataframe using the value of a numerical column, such as 'distance' and 'average_watts'. It takes the following parameters;
   
   a. *dataframe* : name of the dataframe to filter (e.g. activities_list)
   b. *col* : name of column where the filter value can be found (e.g. 'sport_type')
   c. *min* : minimum value (e.g. 50)
   d. max : maximum value (e.g. 75)
   
   Examples : 
   
   a. Querynumeric(activities_list, 'distance', 5000, 5999) will filter said dataframe to contain only activities where the 'distance' is equals to or more than 5000 meters, and less than or equal to 5999 meters.
   b. Querynumeric(activities_list, 'distance', 5000, 5000) will filter said dataframe to contain only activities where the 'distance' is 5000 meters, no more no less.
   
3. Queryradius(*dataframe, lat, lon, radius*)
   
   This function can be used when you want to filter your activities based on area. The function does this by calculating the distance between each activity in your dataframe and a specified center, which, like the activities, is also defined by a pair of coordinates. It uses the Haversine formula to perform this coordinate-to-coordinate distance calculation.
   
   The Queryradius( ) function takes the following parameters;
   
   a. *dataframe* : name of the dataframe to filter (e.g. activities_list)
   b. *lat* : the latitude value of the center coordinate
   c. *lon* : the longitude value of the center coordinate
   d. *radius* : radius from center coordinate, in meters (e.g. 5000)
   
   Example : Queryradius(activities_list, -1.4542, 132.01249, 10000) will filter said dataframe to contain only activities where their distance is within 10,000 metres from center coordinate.

### Practical

Now let's apply these to our dataframe.

1. Querystring( )
   
   Say, we have a bunch of activities here and we want to filter only the cycling ones. Based on the provided data, we can filter the dataframe by the 'type' column with value 'Ride'. So we'll use Querystring( ) function, and it'll look something like this:

		rides = Querystring(activities_list,'type','Ride')
		rides
	
   Re-type 'rides', or whatever you name this operation, like shown above, to display the resulting filter.
	
   Execute the cell. You should see a new dataframe containing only rows that fulfil the filter criteria.

2. Querynumeric( )
   
   Now, let's say we want to filter this list down to just rides with the furthest distance. First, we need to know what that furthest distance is. We can use Pandas library's 'describe( )' function to help us find that maximum distance.

		rides.describe()
		
  Type the above script in a new cell. Replace 'rides' with the name you gave your dataframe.
  
  Execute the cell and you should see a matrix table displaying information such as 'mean' of each column in your dataframe. You should see your maximum distance inside the 'max' of 'distance'. We'll use that as filter parameter inside Querynumeric() function, which will look something like this;

	farthest_rides = Querynumeric(rides,'distance',23000,25000)
	farthest_rides

  Execute the cell and you should see the filtered dataframe.

3. Queryradius( )

	This one is the most fun.

	Say, you ride around the same area every weekend and you want to have a dataframe which contains only those rides. We can use Queryradius() for that.

	Consider the following example:

		lake_rides = Queryradius(activities_list,-30.13412,5.34134,7)
		lake_rides

	The above operation will filter 'activitties_list' dataframe to only activities that are within 7 kilometres radius from a center defined using coordinates with a latitude value of -30.13412 and a longitude value of 5.34134.

	How can you determine the center? Easy way is to just use the 'lat' and 'lon' values of one of the activities in that area, which you can find in the 'activities_list' dataframe. You can also use Google Maps.

	Note that we're using 'activities_list' dataframe and not the ones we created in the previous queries, such as 'farthest_rides', because the activities we want to filter only exist in 'activities_list'. So, choose the dataframes to filter accordingly.

#### Milestone 7 : Filtering activities.

# Next

[[8. GPS Data]]



