In the last chapter, **7. Querying**, we managed to filter our activities list and then perform basic analysis on the filtered data using describe() function.

But, the main purpose of that isn't analysis - we wanted to filter our long list of activities so that we can easily find the ID of activities of interest, and then use those ID to get their GPS data via Swagger Playground.

That's what we're going to do in this chapter.

Now let's retrieve and process our GPS data.

#### Get GPS Data From Swagger

1. First, head over to Swagger Playground and find 'Streams' section. 
   
    Once there, click on 'GET /activities/{id}/streams'.
    
    Click 'Try it out'.
    
2. Now switch to Colab, and copy the ID of the activity whose GPS data you wish to get from Swagger. You can find the ID in the 'id' column of your dataframe.
   
3. Switch back to Swagger and paste the ID onto the 'id' parameter shown below.
   
4. Select everything in the 'Desired stream types' section.
   
    Tip : To select everything, click on 'time', and then hold 'Shift' on your keyboard while you click 'grade_smooth'.

5. Execute the query.
   
    If successful, you should see another JSON response.

6. Click 'Download' and save the file in your computer.

#### Load and Process GPS Data in Colab

1. Drag and drop the downloaded data onto your Colab's file directory, just like we did during our activities list data processing.

2. Now we're going to use LoadStravaActivityStream() function to load and clean our GPS data. Yours should look something like this:
   
		ride_1 = LoadStravaActivityStream('/contents/response_12123.json')
		ride_1
	 
	 Execute the cell. You should see a dataframe like below.

There's plenty we can do with our GPS data, that's why we've dedicated a separate chapter for plotting and mapping. 

Head over to chapter **9. Visualizing**, and we'll see you there.

#### Milestone 8 : Loading and processing GPS data.

# Next

[[9. Visualizing]]