In this chapter, we're going to visualize both our activities list and GPS data in forms of maps and a line graph. There's actually a lot more visualizations you can do using Python programming language, but let's get started quickly with a few.

First, let's see what kind of insight we can get by visualizing our activity stream data on a map.

#### Plot Map

Here we have an example map which displays all the points in an athlete's activity where they ran the fastest.

For this one, we used a filtered dataframe containing only GPS points where the velocity was on the top ranges.

Let's do this on our data, using the PlotMap() function.

1. Locate the cell containing the 'def' of PlotMap() function and execute it
   
2. Then, inside a new cell under it, type in the function and the required parameters. It should look something like this:
   
	   fastest_map = PlotMap(
			   dataset=fastest_run,
			   zoom=12,
			   basemap=basemaps.Esri.WorldImagery,
			   width='600px',
			   height='400px'
			   )
		fastest_map
	
	Make sure to use your own dataframe name.

	Execute the cell and you should see a map like this.
	
	If you don't like how these values for 'zoom', 'width', and 'height' turn out for you, just play around with the values and re-execute the cell until they suit your fancy.
	
	For 'basemap', there's actually more map styles than 'basemaps.Esri.WorldImagery' - you can find more styles here [basemaps](https://ipyleaflet.readthedocs.io/en/latest/map_and_basemaps/basemaps.html) then copy-paste the name of your chosen style in the 'basemap' parameter of this function.
	
#### Route Map

Maybe you're wondering, *can I make a map like Strava?*

Well yes you can!

Here we have a map which looks just like a typical Strava map, created using the RouteMap() function.

Let's use our data to make one.

1. Locate the cell with 'def' of RouteMap() then execute it
   
2. Insert a new cell under it and type in the function including the parameters. For our dataframe, it looks like this:
   
		ride_map = RouteMap(
			   dataset=ride_1,
			   zoom=12,
			   basemap=basemaps.Esri.WorldImagery,
			   color='red',
			   width='600px',
			   height='400px'
			   )
		ride_map

	 Execute the cell and see your result.

#### Line Graph

Usually, when people run or ride, they want to see how their velocity varies over time (or over distance).

Using Python and its libraries, we can actually do much more than that.

But to get you started, we're going to create a line graph which will show how your velocity varies over distance. This velocity change will be accompanied by elevation change data, to see how elevation might have affected your speed.

For this, we've prepared the Multigraph() function which will produce a two-axis line graph, like the example below.

Let's make one for your activity.

1. Locate the cell with 'def' of Multigraph() function and execute it
   
2. Inside a new cell under it, type in the function along with the required parameters. It should look like this:
   
	   Multigraph(
	   dataset=ride_1, 
	   x_col='distance', 
	   y_col_1='velocity_smooth', 
	   y_col_2='altitude', 
	   width=14, 
	   height=6, 
	   x_label='Distance (m)', 
	   y_label_1='Velocity (m/s)', 
	   y_label_2='Elevation (m)', 
	   graph_title='ride-1-graph'
	   )
	
	Execute the cell and see the result.

#### Milestone 9 : Visualizing activity data.

# Next

[[10. ChatGPT]]
